but his relationship to the working
people the oil men the loggers the
fishermen the farmers the service people
the truckers
he is an anathema to demand by the way
he's hurt the reputation and the
historical legacy of the party he
represents and i'm not an ndp here but i
could i can respect and know what they
did and i admire them for that
even the communist party of canada
announced yesterday that they weren't in
favor of the emergencies act because
they realized well they realized that
that that allows instantaneously for the
demonization and and the criminalization
of anything like organized labor
protests of course and so obviously
[Music]
hello everyone i'm here today with a man
who needs no introduction to canadians
and
increasingly less so to people
watching
an international audience mr rex murphy
one of canada's most revered and
able journalists and we're going to talk
today about
canada
and the canadian government and
try to get to the bottom of what's
happening insofar as the two of us can
manage that
so i thought maybe rex i'd start with
just some notes that i had on
the the pandemic since it's in some ways
at the bottom of current events in any
sense in any case
so
npr announced on december 27th that
omicron could bring the worst surge of
covet yet in the u.s
and fast
but i was watching that and that was
after data had already come in from
south africa that was quite credible
suggesting that omicron was much less
deadly although more transmissible than
delta and it appears now that it's
perhaps 90 percent less so
the current data insofar as you can
trust it suggests that vaccines are
approximately 35 percent again effective
against immigrant
infection and perhaps 70 percent against
hospitalization so that's the reality of
the pandemic and i'll add one more thing
and then turn it over to you for a
minute
well that data has been making itself
manifest over the last few months
pandemic mandate restriction reductions
have occurred in a variety of major
countries including denmark england
sweden norway spain and italy a
relatively admirable set of countries
let's point out and then also in the
last two weeks in canada in saskatchewan
alberta quebec ontario and pei and yet
our country is under the equivalent of
i think martial law is not too extreme a
term
and
we're in worse shape politically perhaps
than we've ever been so
you've had a vast experience watching
the canadian political scene forever so
what do you make of this
well first of all
it's very difficult to find
a single sentence answer they're not
being killed uh
i've i've watched this stuff for what
it's worth
me being the witness uh from the days
back in the 1950s i'm an ancient old
bastard uh when joey smallwood was a
fairly
in many ways a fairly tyrannical premier
at the end of his days and
i thought i learned then as a teenager
what overreach was like and what even in
a minuscule
circumstance like newfoundland it's it's
not russia or united states but
nonetheless when you get in charge
how you over time you attenuate or you
lose or you diminish
the few noble impulses that you may have
come in with and become completely
obsessed with yourself
to go right to your question however
it really is very difficult that after
two years
and very sporadically effective measures
don't take the mass they'll hurt you
take the mask ignoring the old age homes
the economic ruin that's going on and
after we go through two whole years of
this this third period you mentioned the
omni crown comes in
the information comes by and as you
point out major and responsible
countries after the two years realizing
that okay
we're into a milder circumstance we
cannot continue
claustrophobically to restrict our
citizens from their basic rights they
start to lift them
serious countries start to lift the
mandates and so at the tail and also as
you mentioned uh some of the provinces
in canada and at this point a single
group
the trucks who for two years were going
around uh delivering food and being
regarded as heroes they they live as
people have pointed out
solitary lives
they're alone in their trucks but after
two years at the very very end
a core of those truckers and it could be
from principles of civil liberties
it could be because they believe that
they've already had covert and therefore
they haven't in other words there's a
whole host of rational reasons
that some people would say no i i have
occupation and it's two years all these
things are going away and instead
they're threatened their livelihoods are
threatened their actual livelihoods
and then they they i got to get this in
they they
make this point they say to ottawa they
say to their own politicians why are you
doing this
you know we have worked like others have
not worked we have worked as hard as the
medical staff we have worked as hard as
the grocery clerks and we are the people
bringing you the food and by the way of
supplies for the hospitals
so of all the people
to single out
the the the working-class trucker and
then they go across canada in the middle
of the winter
there's a week's warning and here's the
key
at no point at no point
did any substantial authority
backbencher minister minister finance or
prime minister send out either a
delegation or himself and say look these
are these guys and gals
in these trucks
are the heart and soul of this country
come in and let's have a chat
we're canadians we talk about things
we we have we have prided ourselves ever
so much
that we're so polite and we're so
compromising we say sorry when someone
else hits us
so where did the ethic
the intrinsic ethic of the canadian
temperament disappear
and instead
instead of saying oh my god
what what a joy it would be to talk to
someone who's not hidden cabinets to
talk to someone who does a job who has
kept society functioning if you guys
have problems i really want to speak to
you because i'm your prime minister
and i'm also the prime minister of
canada but no talk none at all instead
this is the thing that really got my
temper up
instead out of the blue
like like some dark wizard he comes down
on them they're racists
they're misogynists
they're only a small fringe but they're
taking up space and we can't tolerate
that
i i do not know i really do not
i do not know what was in his mind
what was in the minds of his superlative
advisors presuming that they have them
and i'm also surprised that the liberal
caucus liberalism is a word without a
capital letter many many times
how come all those backbenchers some of
them from the atlantic provinces who
know the working class who know
fishermen and fishermen and loggers and
miners and oil workers and truckers
they're a class
does no one stand up for them and then
let the prime minister rail at them and
mr singh saying that these are white
supremacists and they're calling islam a
disease
whenever i hear the word irresponsible
paused at the ottawa protest
it turns me upside down
one more final point now shut up
when have you seen
when in america or in canada
a two and a half week protest
by blm or antifa or some environmental
group
and not a window smashed
not a police officer attacked
no burning of buildings
no shouting curse words at the police
forces
no intimidation
this has been
a classic
a classic canadian protest in this sense
that a it's a working class protest so
it's not professional
and secondly considering what's at stake
livelihood
restriction of civil liberties they'll
prepare an inflammation inflammatory
reddick from the prime minister the fact
that the last two weeks
have been as tranquil as they have
that that's that's a new bloom
in the idea of canadian temperament
sorry to be so long
so
you and i were told a couple of months
ago that my advisers to
high-level government officials that
the kovid policy was essentially being
dictated by opinion poll which is
something we can get back to this
reliance by government leaders now on
experts and on opinion polls we'll we'll
cover that but we should also point out
that although
many countries in europe had started to
lift vaccine mandates and that had been
lifted in many states in the u.s that
none of that was occurring at in canada
at all until the truckers started this
protest
and so now these five provinces have
started to lift their mandates and more
are going to follow and
they aren't claiming that that's a
consequence of the trucker protest but
the truth of the matter is is that we
know that this is being run by opinion
poll which is a terrible way to run a
government and that nothing had changed
before the truckers started to protest
and so and then we should also point out
that we have an 86 vaccination rate in
canada that's one dose vaccination
anyways and that no one with any sense
would ever think that it would be
possible to push vaccine rates above
approximately 90 percent because 10
percent of the population is
not in the condition necessary even to
comply often voluntarily with mandates
and so it's terrible naivety to assume
that it can be pushed beyond that
and so so let's let's go through a
couple of issues i'll just list them and
these are things we can discuss well we
want to figure out well why did the
truckers get demonized and what are
canadians supposed to think about that
especially because fin track which
tracks financial transactions
and is supposed to be taking care of
such things as terrorist financing has
no evidence of suspicious transactions
occurring in relationship to this
protest and that's
uh was documented by ctv
who is hardly uh you could hardly accuse
of being sympathetic to the truckers so
there's that then there's
just exactly what is the emergency here
and why is it reasonable under any
conditions whatsoever to consider this
an emergency of such major proportions
that our basic civil liberties have to
be lifted
then
the ability to freeze and seize bank
accounts which generates distrust in the
banks the precedent to define
retroactive crime because now funding a
perfectly legal protest through legal
means has been criminalized and
associated with terrorism and organized
crime and can be punished without trial
by fiat and that appears to be permanent
then we have the extension and
redefinition of crime because mischief
has now been expanded as a category to
arrest people without cause and now you
can aid and abet mischief and then they
compelled the tow truck operators to
start operating
and trudeau said they would get just
compensation and then you've been
beating this drum for a long time
we've been governed essentially without
parliament for two years and then this
is maybe it's very hard to say what the
worst thing is that happened to canada
in the last two weeks because six things
are worse and each of them should be
fatal to the trudeau government but i
think perhaps the worst was the decision
to suspend parliament on friday from
discussing the emergency act because of
the action that was instituted by the
police as a consequence of the emergency
act
so
let's start with
um
what we you talked about trudeau's state
of mind with regards to the truckers
like he's accused the
conservatives of supporting the people
who wave swastikas and and tried to
associate the truckers with nazis and
and went after a jewish conservative mp
uh and hasn't apologized for that uh so
do you
do you think that trudeau believes that
the truckers are actually some kind of
far right mega movement or or what
it just leaves me speechless on that one
point
it is impossible to believe that he
believes it
if you'll have a thousand or two
thousand or three thousand people
and there is a placard up
and the placard is not support i don't
i'm sorry you've been having to make
this point the placard that has the
swastika on it it's it's a nasty thing
but it's implying that the government is
the bunch
and the news media and trudeau take this
this idiot
and his scribbled damn swastika
and they tried to paint
tens of thousands because when these
truckers came across canada every
highway overpass
and at least a third of the country is
saying thank god that someone is
expressing something but the idea that
he that the conservative the
conservatives are feeble and they
haven't been present enough i could go
on with them forever but the idea that
they're they're nazis
i mean this is this is not even grade
six
this is ridiculous
and the oh by the way i have to this
this one guy wearing a raccoon mask
walking around with the confederate flag
it was absurd it has no consequence
whatsoever well in the truck if you
listen
away well i don't mean there's video
evidence of that i know that but the
news media sucked on that like they were
a hungry babe i mean it it was so
well
let's talk let's talk about the news
media first we might as well jump to
that okay so here's the deal
now one of the ways that mussolini
defined fascism which i think is quite
interesting is the integration of
corporation and state
okay so let's talk about the media the
legacy media in canada
595 million dollar salary subsidy in the
last four years 1.2 billion annually for
the cbc which has also been uh it's also
been recommended to the cc cbc that they
decrease rather than increase their
reliance on private advertising
60 million pandemic specific emergency
support fund 10 million special measures
for journalism top up for 2021 and 22
and then the recent request for the
toronto by the toronto star and i hope i
get this right which is probably the
loudest rag in the country beating the
trudeau drum for 60 million dollars
describing a 30 million dollar annual
shortfall in their operating budget and
so
what see here's the thing i think that's
the canadians are faced with at the
moment that's so awful it's related to
this press government collusion issue
the typical canadian
is someone who's
being believed for years in the reality
of peace order and good government right
our constitutional principle and that
our
fundamental institutions were
essentially reliable government
education media let's say you could you
you could count on them to at least try
to tell the truth under most
circumstances and so trudeau now is
facing them with a very difficult choice
which is
you either believe that all of those
institutions have become corrupt and
unreliable in a profound and frightening
way and that now includes the banks or
you can believe that a handful of that
there's a handful of protesters who have
far right ties and can be justly
demonized and i suspect for most
canadians for many canadians it's easier
to believe the latter especially when
that's what the prime minister and his
cronies are saying than the former even
though unfortunately and i say this as
someone with a fair bit of respect for
fundamental institutions and wish that
they would operate properly
unfortunately the former is
has proved itself perhaps in the last
two weeks to be far more true than even
the most
cautious of us
and worried of us might have predicted
even a month ago
so
well there's a whole lot of things to
say about that
i'll start even on the broader scale
than you mentioned
anybody who is not a partisan
and who hasn't got some some infectious
uh radical ideas about one side of the
spectrum or the other in other words
someone who's reasonable balance
probably switches back and forth between
tory and liberal or republican and
democrat
those days of equilibrium or or easy
shift or disagreement
their their history
if you look at america
in particular because it connects by the
way
if you look at america and american
journalism in the last five and six
years the growth especially at the cable
channels plural
and the the absolute
surrender to the most
vile
partisanship the whole russia collusion
thing if you read some of the sane
people
molly hemingway's book for example
you realize and it's it's hard even to
digest
that was all confection that was all
composure that was all made up
and the the savagery with which during
the trump years
any detail
any detail got into the cbc wouldn't be
alive today if it wasn't for donald
trump when you switch and i'm getting to
your point
when you switch
up to the biden administration
and we know that he's kind of long
cheney coming out of the chamber wrapped
in linen
hardly anything
the huge candles that are going on the
durham commission down in the states
right now that's not even getting
reported much like now i will switch
up here in canada on the very day that
the stallions were going into parliament
hill
uh you had the coastal gas leak the
attack by 20 masked people with axes
who threaten people in the cabs of their
trucks
is as far as i know
it was close to 24 hours before that
even got reporters
on cbc now what i'm getting to eat
before i get to the money
is that the press
as an institution there are many
exceptions
but by the mass of the institution it is
decided it is a player that it will pick
a side that it will inflate the the
people that it likes to inflate and it
will derogate and damn those that it
does not they will do that from a perch
of self-assumed moral superiority here's
what you you need to know
they have forgotten that their audience
has intelligence dignity and they really
think that it's more or less
a cooperative movement between the
elites of government bureaucracy the
university and the press
and then when some low-class uh
operation occurs that some bunch of you
know
big hat truckers coming who are these
people who are interrupting our
complacency and tranquility then you
come to your point
it would have been impossible
50 years ago
for any institutional press
to say oh by the way we are we see
ourselves as opposition because that's
what a press is it inquires it pushes it
tests
but at the same time incidentally uh
most of our operation is getting funded
by the people we're
we're dealing with
uh also
the close cohabitation of the
high-class journalists with the people
that they cover
the sociability of ottawa is one of the
most corrosive things to a free pest
that we ever knew
but i will tell you this it doesn't show
up on the newscast very often
but when you talk to what i call the guy
in the street
they know that 600 million dollars goes
to the press
they they are not watching anymore and
not only that
when the press then say oh this has been
a terrible ordeal for us in ottawa
no one
got touched
they have been putting up with this
condescension dismissal their yobs their
louds they're taking up space they
shouldn't be tolerated who is this they
and this is coming out of the mouth of a
prime minister who more than any other
thing
set himself up as the virtue emperor of
all the world he was more tolerant he
was more liberal he was more
broad-minded he was for all all sorts of
diversity
except diversity for the people who
actually keep the country going so yeah
i go to the press the press is a part of
this dynamic it's a part of this crisis
i don't know where we go from it we'll
get to that i'm sure but there's been an
awful lot of
an awful diminishment of respect dignity
and prestige for both the government and
that means by the way the opposition
parties too
and the press during this
the truckers might lose as we say in the
ancient thing they might have lost the
battle but they they've altered the
perception of very many things very
deeply
so this morning
you know i don't know what to make of
all of this because it's happening so
quickly i can't believe the state to
which the country is degenerated i've
been in contact with a reliable source
within the canadian military and he told
me today by email that if i had any
sense i'd take my money out of the
canadian banks because the situation is
far worse than i've been informed and so
that's just one of many such messages i
receive on a daily basis so let's talk
about the bank so here's what our prime
minister did last
week he permanently destroyed 20 percent
of the population's faith in the entire
canadian banking system and stained the
canadian banking system's international
reputation i would say for decades and
in any normal time that in itself would
have been enough to
constitute sufficient grounds for a
non-confidence vote for the government
to be ousted and that's only one of like
the seven things that happened last week
that are of that magnitude you can't
even keep up with them so let's talk
about this emergency for a minute so
you know i talked to brian peckford the
former premier of newfoundland a couple
of weeks ago about the fact that the
mandates themselves weren't justifiable
under the essentially the emergency
clause in the charter
which which allows for the suspension of
certain basic rights under certain
conditions the mandates themselves
weren't justifiable especially now
and now the ante has been raised a
tremendous degree because
we have a new emergency which is
apparently more serious than the entire
kovid pandemic that justifies the
imposition of martial law and the
seizing of bank accounts and the
retroactive definition of crime and all
of this and so what let's let i'll ask
you to play devil's advocate okay just
for a minute so imagine that you're on
the side of trudeau and and that and the
true to government and you're trying to
make the case that this is an emergency
that justifies the imposition of martial
law so what's the emergency exactly tell
me
give me some evidence that there's an
emergency of any sort
even if and i accept the challenge
to be a devil's advocate let me just let
me really try
what is the thing that is making the
canadian state tremble to the point
of its own dissolution
uh are all the provincial capitals under
seizure no i don't think so
oh i got it uh the russians are coming
down from the north and they've got the
fleet
of the highest gunnery and which knows
not that either
oh oh maybe it's inflation and if we
kill the truckers you know we ruined the
truckers we can take look
even trying to be advocate
okay great imposition i'll go that far
great imposition on the kind of comfort
and tranquility of ottawa but there's
been an awful lot
of imposition on the tranquilities of
every person in this country for the
last two years you couldn't visit your
sick mother if she was in an old age
home
you cannot look
freeland is supposed to be bright
and mr lametty after some of the things
he's been saying i have to hold judgment
on
where's the threat
there isn't one this was just the
longest most sustained and almost you
can read it and you can see the live
pictures from people who are not in the
news media it was even an almost
celebratory thing
if if even the delegation of the trudeau
cabinet had walked down the streets of
ottawa had enough of parker's that they
could sit outdoors and spend two hours
talking to some of these real people
this could have been washed away so even
advocates diabolos i cannot do it
because i cannot even in fantasy
come up with okay
let me let me try so we're going to say
all right so this is a uh
it's a radical right wig movement and
it's funded by
meg money flowing in from the united
states and that there's a real threat of
a january 6 style insurrection and as a
consequence to protect ottawa and the
stability of the state we have to make
the trucker convoy illegal
and so
and then we have to hunt everyone down
and track everyone down whoever donated
because they're part of this extreme
far-right network that has its origins
in the united states and the entire
integrity of the state is
no well so does anyone believe that it's
like so because i don't get it i don't
even i don't even see why this this is a
wise move strategically for the liberals
well i tell you there is there is a
reason why they believe it because this
this is why i brought up the united
states it wasn't idle
they had a sustained four years of
believing what was not true
i'm stating this with definitive force
it simply wasn't true putin did not own
trump now people might not like to hear
that but it was a confection
it was a setup and yet all of the great
investigative powers of some of the
greatest journals and television
stations in all the world
went with it day and night
and now you have for example mr biden's
son with his contracts and these chinese
not even to be mentioned here's how it
comes to be this this far right
the white supremacy movement
i see the phrase white supremacy so
often and i wonder
where is this coming from there there
will always be is you know some
fanatically stupid set of people with
some fanatically stupid cause
but there has not been it may use this
word a pandemic
of racist white challenge but it's been
the father and the and the new speak and
the woke dialect and it's been shoved
out so often that if you say the word
maggot now this is where lametty comes
in he said you know if you're
pro-trumpian
i can go down to newfoundland and go
from port-au-prince to saint john's and
then up up to saint anthony and i will
not meet anyone who is
pro-trumpian
i mean
it's silly but if you have
catholic said if you pound it hard
enough and long enough enough people
will believe it
well i can't i can't think of any other
reason than belief in something like
that that could possibly justif possibly
justify what's happening because i can't
believe that so i'm trying to look for
alternative explanations you know it's
okay
the liberal government has decided to
implement a state of emergency okay so
here's a psychological explanation
trudeau's father did that back in the
1970s and justin is constantly trying to
prove his validity as a
figure of masculine integrity and i
think there's probably some of that
going on because if there wasn't he
wouldn't have run for prime minister to
begin with because he's so supremely
unqualified to be prime minister that
it's a complete bloody miracle that
anyone could be narcissistic enough to
assume that
with that little knowledge a role like
that should be adopted so that that's
definitely a factor and so he's got to
stand up and show that he can do it
under duress and then it's got to be the
belief that there's something like a
far-right conspiracy occurring because
invoking the the martial law act the
emergency act is so preposterous a move
that unless you actually believe that
there was a signal threat of that
paranoid sort there's no way you could
justify it strategically because i
cannot see how anyone could think
through including christian freeland by
the way the notion that this is going to
go over well over a period of something
approximating a month
so it's got to be it's got to be that
and i read the other day that that
because fintrac never found any evidence
of you know
radical foreigners colluding in a
right-wing manner to fund the
freedom convoy that most of the
information that the government depended
on was actually generated by the cbc and
so then we have this feedback loop right
well there's that yeah and that that's a
whole other bloody insane catastrophe
that that funding site was hacked by a
crazy activist and then that information
was distributed and that distribute
distribute distribution of stolen
information is technically illegal and
the media jumped on that and the
government capitalized on it and it's
got to be that they believe their own
press and that's so interesting because
they bought the press and paid them to
tell them what they wanted to hear
and now they believe it and justify
their their policy as a consequence of
that
i'll pick up on two things you said
if there is some
sort of dynamic of equating with the
achievements of the father the only
thing i'll say about that you're the
psychologist
is that in 1967 there was a very sweet
man i only read off him but i heard
enough people who was a cabinet minister
pierre laporte there was an english
ambassador boris's report
ends up in the trunk of a car having
been shot
there were all sorts of
various actions by the flq that
certainly
generated a justified anxiety and then i
won't go into detail because younger
people wouldn't remember any of this
stuff but there was some talk among the
great french canadian leadership mr
claude ryan of the davar that we maybe
we may have to step in but
what i'm trying to say and not very well
is that at least there was
a portion
of actual deed in action
a horrific murder uh touches of
something very close to or or equal to
real terror
when when pierre true to haul it down
the second thing in the context in the
context of a in the context of an actual
separatist movement that genuinely posed
a threat to the integrity and in the
context also of light movements like the
the the weather underground in the
states that were blowing up post offices
and shooting people it was also a time
when this paranoia anxiety was was alert
and that the hardest leftist people were
starting to think of themselves as
guerrillas uh in the new world order the
other thing was and this is this is very
important the news clip is available
i don't know i can't remember the name
of the journalist but on the day that
pierre trudeau bought in the war
measures act which was the big big big
thing
he was stopped by some reporter i
presume he was going in but doesn't
matter he was stopped by a reporter
and instead of you know brushing him off
or leaving question period the two of
them and trudeau is just standing there
the two of them have this back and forth
the reporter is really pushing
and true to give him all the credit in
the world he's pushing just as hard and
almost nasty weak need liberals was one
of the phrases that he used what i'm
saying there is that even if he
overreached in the time
he was willing to stand face to face
with a real reporter for almost half an
hour going back and forth as the camera
in other words he didn't hide now i'll
go to your other point he has to believe
it look
maybe there is maybe there is a
substantial fantasy
that is operative in the entire liberal
cabinet
and if mr trudeau actually believes that
there is a genuine threat of mega
overthrow and trumpian forces
uh there are was it 30 plus people in
his cabinet they can't all share that
fantasy and if we have 30 people
elevated well then how else do you how
else do you account for what they're
doing like because
it's a bloody disaster
because they genuflect
i i put a note in the column that you
kindly posted
i said heroes and i was exaggerating
where are the five or six people in his
own cabinet or in his own caucus that
are saying
justin you have really
really overreached
vastly you have insulted the nature of
this country which is always the middle
course
always willingness to at least try a
compromise and a talk and you've
introduced false drama and that's my
explanation maybe the melodramatic idea
of a great national emergency that will
flare across the world maybe he saw
himself as the hero but if you're
following the international press we're
getting a real beating and happy days
our sunny days are not here again okay
so let's go back to to pierre trudeau
for a moment i mean i thought the
imposition of the
of the war measures act was was uncalled
for because i was just as afraid of the
federal government as i was of the flq
let's say but i think you could have had
a debate about that but but let's look
at what the ndp did then
okay because let's talk about the ndp
and jagmeet singh
because i think if anything and this is
this is this is quite the insult i think
if anything he's more juvenile immature
and narcissistic than trudeau and that's
really saying something now back when
the war measures act were implemented
the major now i was involved with the
ndp to some degree at that point and i
knew a fair number of the leaders of the
provincial parties not well but i knew
grant naughtly well and a lot of those
people had come up through the labor
union movement genuinely and were
actually concerned about the working
class and
not all i'm not saying that about all
the socialists but but a high proportion
of their leaders were genuinely
concerned with the well-being of the
working class labor union types
and the ndp opposed the war measures act
on principle and sven robinson who's
part of that cohort a little later but
part of that cohort also opposed it
yesterday and yet jagmeet singh is and
the ndp from the polls i've read that
followers of the ndp are those most set
against what the truckers have done and
he's following true to around like a lap
dog
well yeah you brought it all up and it's
really good and and
yes for the younger people that are
watching this i actually remember i got
a fairly good memory i remember tommy
douglas and when when he brought when
trudeau brought down the war measures
like at least in english canada
i mean it it swept it had a lot of
visceral and immediate approval maybe
because you know it's in quebec never
mind the reasons it was a winner in the
majority of circumstances but tommy
douglas was from out west murmur
tommy douglas he braved
against that particular wind
he took a hard stand and he was not i
wouldn't say alone
but he was very close to being isolated
yet he stood up here's a maxim for you
he's the most admired man in canadian
history by the way tommy douglas right
there was a poll a while a couple of
years ago maybe the cbc ran it which
makes it suspect but of all the people
listed tony douglas was listed as the
most admired uh uh political figure in
canadian history
so well here's here was the thing though
he understood one thing about government
that if a government goes to its
greatest extremes
and reaches for powers that are normally
not accessible
that is the precise moment that the
opposition
brings itself to its fullest possible
energy
even if the government is right
when they are reaching for ultimate and
and overriding civil liberties then you
you have to it is your duty to stand up
and test it and test it again and again
and challenge it and exert the greatest
pressure explain yourself justify it
limit it give us the boundaries and yet
in this particular case
the very day as you have mentioned that
they brought in this thing and let the
police loose on the protesters that's
the day that parliament doesn't even
meet and mr singh
mr singh will will win every student
council election in canada but his
relationship to the working people the
oil men the loggers the fishermen the
farmers the service people the truckers
he is an anathema to demand by the way
he's hurt the reputation and the
historical legacy of the party he
represents and i'm not an ndp here but i
could you know i can respect and know
what they did and i admire them for that
even the communist party of canada
announced yesterday that they weren't in
favor of the emergency act because they
realized well they realized that
that that allows instantaneously for the
demonization and and the criminalization
of anything like organized labor
protests yeah of course and so obviously
and so
okay so let's
let's talk about that friday event just
let's because this actually really needs
to be focused on so you know you'd think
the uh
the conservatives
i don't understand why all the mps on
the conservative side just didn't go to
parliament anyways i can't believe like
canadians have to think this through so
we had martial law imposed it's supposed
to be debated in parliament and then we
have to talk about the fact that there's
been no parliament for two years
it's supposed to be debated in
parliament on the very day that the
debate is supposed to start the
government announces that it's going to
suspend parliament yet again not because
of colvin but because of the dangers of
the situation they created to stop
debate about that very measure and
everyone went along with it
you cannot make it up you really can by
the way under conservatives they have a
mass of mps and if they didn't want to
go to parliament yesterday hey
i hope they didn't they shouldn't be
flying home they should have gone down
in a cluster
and they should have walked the streets
and they should have at least had
conversations not anything else just
conversation how is this going what are
they doing what do you think when would
you leave show them that their
representatives actually talk to the
people that they represent
and secondly they should be at extreme
volume they have been tepid
they have been removed
there is no vigorous
no no no no clamorous opposition to this
this is the biggest thing that has
happened since the imposition of the war
measures act which had saw people picked
off the street and put into jail
this is a really really big thing it's
it's possibly going to deepen the
cleavages we already have in this
country to a very very high point it's a
dismissal again again
of a majority of people who are out west
canada is not ontario and quebec however
wonderful those provinces are but it's
becoming some sort of if you're not woke
and you're not in the laptop class and
if you're not professionally insulated
from all the pressures of covet if you
can ride around easily you're in one
world and if those who keep the country
functioning who fix the water mains who
deliver the goods if they start to feel
the pressure and say to their government
we want some hearing
oh well they're they're radicals they're
hypocrites they're they're they're
islamophobes they're misogynist and also
of course they probably
bunching up to being trump terrorists
and of course naturally they're racists
have you looked at the crowds that were
in ottawa did that seem wayne supreme
you
some joke
okay so let's talk about the
preconditions for
the occurrence of suspending parliament
on friday now because that's absolutely
scandalous and it should have been front
page news on any reliable newspaper
across the entire country because it's
so utterly catastrophic but you've been
beating the warning drums about the
uh suspension of parliament for the last
two years and so let's go into that
first of all it is not clear at all that
the
that
that there's any reasonable
that there's any rationale whatsoever
that's credible constitutionally or
political politically for the suspension
of parliament itself during the time of
the covid crisis because parliament is
the place where the voice of the people
meets the voice of the leaders and where
the political thought that guides the
country
originates and so it was even though we
had um what would you call it essential
services that stayed open during the
covid epidemic parliament wasn't deemed
one of them so parliament is now not an
essential service okay so now we've been
trained
in some sense or become accustomed to
the fact that government can occur in
this country in the absence of
parliament so i would like you to
collaborate because you've very glad you
brought that up because this is another
thought that has occurred to me i was
wondering because of all the kinds of
questions you already asked you know
what
what justified this what's what's the
big emergency etcetera well
i trace it back to the beginning once
parliament once covered came
this this kind of lazy
and distasteful of oversight government
i think that's the first thing to say
they first of all they saw it as an
opportunity to be semi-heroic in its
management even though at the beginning
and i won't go over it first two or
three months they were a total mess
but they found it
also a very convenient thing that that
they don't like question periods they
don't like account of they're not
getting much force from the press
that they could walk away from that then
you had this situation where even
something so mighty as a as a national
budget they asked originally for two
years
oh well they skipped one year but they
asked for the powers for two years until
they got slapped down
they had their snc in their wii scandal
so this wasn't a good time to have
parliament open in any effective kind of
way now get to the essential thing
in the period of true crisis and we call
it a pandemic a true crisis
the most important institution
not essential quintessential five right
the essence the quintessential
thing is the commons
and if you bring in emergency
legislation and suspend civil liberties
and seize bank accounts and phone up
people who made legitimate donations to
see if they're on side shut down
shopkeepers in other words because you
send their names out
that is the ultimate no the tories
in particular should have been sitting
on those steps screaming at the top of
their lungs why is it open in the house
that's right that's right
yep absolutely they should have gone on
mass
and through the police to the house of
commons and demanded that the debate
take place it's a catastrophic failure
of opposition yes it is it is i don't
know where it's going to go i really
don't well let's let's dig down farther
into that so what's happened in the
absence of parliament three things i
would say or four things one is
the abdication of executive and
legislative responsibility to
hypothetical experts so all on the
public health side so follow the science
follow the experts it's like there's no
clear pathway between from medical facts
to valid policy the only pathway from
facts to policy is through parliament
through the executive branch and the or
the executive operations and the
legislative operations
thinking through the problems in public
in the house of commons and in the
provincial parliaments yeah that's the
pathway not from the bloody science to
the outcome ever so they could devolve
all their responsibilities onto medical
experts and claim compassion and wisdom
in doing so and demonize what you're not
following the science yeah so that's
number one it's like so now it's
government by fiat and government by
experts and the unit and the restriction
of what constitutes appropriate law
making to one dimension which is
putative public health conceived of in
an extraordinary narrow sense without
debate and then the next thing and you
and i have talked about this a fair bit
in private is the fact that all these
bloody governments including the
provincial governments in canada have
started to rely on nothing but opinion
polls as a means of sampling what the
public thinks and i'd like to go into
that psychologically for a moment you
know canadians now simultaneously
according to the polls don't want the
mandates
and don't support the truckers now it
doesn't take a bloody genius to notice
that those two things are at odds to one
another and so you might think well how
clueless is the public and that's not
the right
conclusion the right conclusion is how
stupid are we to rely on opinion polls
because it's extraordinarily difficult
to sample
what the public thinks and the reason we
have institutions like parliament in
fact the actual reason we have
institutions like parliament is because
that's a much better method of
determining over a long period and in a
sustained way
what the public thinks when they're
thinking carefully over multiple weeks
when many of them are together
discussing and when all of that's
organized into something approximating a
free political system opinion polls
subvert all of that
not only that here's another point that
builds completely on what you just said
one of the functions
as old as there is a parliament
and especially the mother of all
parliaments of having these great vast
parliamentary reform bill of 1832 is
that the debate itself is an agency of
the establishment of public opinion and
if you don't have the arguments and the
debate
then opinion has no way to fashion
itself or to respond to or to modify
previous positions you don't take a
static by the way these poles are also
highly suspected need that means
if you highly methodologically suspect
in like well not only methodologies i
think i don't say it out loud i think
some of them are partisan but i go back
to parliament
if you cannot have a discussion
in the parliamentary chamber
of bringing in the most serious piece of
legislation that we've seen as you said
in 50 years what is the point of
parliament
what is it
i can't get it well it's an impediment
okay so we can talk about that it's an
impediment to what exactly so let's go
down deeper into trudeau's motivation so
both christian freeland
and
and trudeau are integrally associated
with the world economic forum
and there's a globalist agenda this
sounds like right-wing propaganda i
suppose but there is a globalist
elite agenda that is aimed at
severely modifying the manner in which
our fundamental institutions operate
under the what would you call the
impetus of yet another crisis which is
the hypothetical climate crisis and i am
an admiral meyer of bjorn lomberg i
think he's done the best work on this
matter all things considered
methodologically um he's got the best
methodology for determining how to
analyze what steps should be taken to
deal with
uh environmental concerns i'm not going
to call them emergencies he's documented
it very carefully and i defy anyone on
the climate uh catastrophe side to show
evidence of a methodology more
sophisticated than bjorn larbergs in
terms of analyzing an actual pathway
forward that isn't merely apocalyptic
neuroticism and the desire for
totalitarian control
and so
that's all lurking in the background and
so
and that that's also
pulling the country apart in all sorts
of ways and and it's underneath events
like the fact that this attack occurred
in northern bc the other day on the on
the on the
on the pro
on the uh the other coastal gas light
exactly that
that's a that's that's part of the
attempt to ensure that we all have
cheap reliable energy as we move forward
into the future
and so and i'm going to make it one more
case about this i worked on the un
secretary general's report on
sustainable development for two years
and analyzed all this sort of material
data and that's where i came across
longberg trying to sort this stuff out
and one of the things i learned from
doing that that was really heartening to
me and also
kind of catastrophically
emotion provoking was that if you look
deeply into the data it is from as many
different perspectives as you could
manage let's say with an open heart the
conclusion that you would derive is that
the faster we can get cheap energy to
the world's poor people
and the cheaper the cheaper that energy
is and that that's mostly going to be
fossil fuels especially natural gas if
we can do it right the faster we're
going to move towards clean energy in
general the richer people are going to
get and the more sustainable
environmental movement we can have in
the future we make the poorest people
rich by giving them access to cheap
energy mostly facilitated by fossil fuel
that's the best possible move forward
for the planet and for those who are
absolutely poor
and again i defy anyone on the
environmental catastrophe side to
formulate an argument showing how that's
not true you say i'm on the side of the
oppressed i'm on the side of the porch
like you're not if you're not for cheap
energy if you're not for cheap energy
you're not on that side at all
and so uh
all other bloody moralistic posturing is
enough to drive you to distract well
well that you you
the analysis of the energy movement i
mean that
it is so patrician
and so patronizing and so by the way it
has a hundred percent support from every
possible major media but it is a craze
uh and by the way we just put in over
500 billion dollars of the deficit over
a trillion dollars of a debt
oil is now
ramping up to 80 or 100 dollars a barrel
and the canadian government has seized
alberta built a concrete wall around it
and the greatest natural resource we
have is frozen one yeah here's one for
you maybe the emergencies that we're
seeing this week
i don't know maybe this is one way of
forestalling
the knowledge that they have
got it
uh wanna hit a time of inflation after
two years two years of economic disaster
the one source of wealth that we have
that closed it down
there's definitely a moral hazard there
rex is that you know there's there's
nothing more psychologically attractive
than a false crisis to divert attention
from a real crisis and you know
i've been talking with people who are in
the economic no in a very profound
manner and who've demonstrated that in a
variety of different ways and one of the
facts that was pointed out to me rather
forcefully over the last month was that
over the last 15 years canada's gross
domestic product per capita
has remained relatively constant at 43
000 while the americans has moved from
approximately that to sixty five
thousand dollars and so that's just one
of many indicators that canada is in a
state of economic crisis the magnitude
of which has not yet been entirely
revealed and that the country is tearing
itself apart at the seams
and so why not have a false crisis
because then you can look heroic when
you're dealing with something that
doesn't exist and you can beat down the
nazis and the confederates instead of
facing up to the fact that you've been
so
appallingly incompetent and moralistic
over the last six years that that that
things are really about to manifest
themselves in their true nature well i
thought you could bring this down we
started at a very early point you can
bring this to a good circle
after the two years we haven't got the
inventory of how many businesses have
failed how many families have been
disjointed or depressed and made anxious
how much the economy itself overall has
been hurt
we don't know yet if once the banks
start to rise their interest rates how
it is debt will drown us we also have
inflation but here's the biggest thing
of all here's the biggest thing and this
didn't happen because of a disease or a
pandemic
uh you mentioned at the beginning
i've been at this far too long
but i have not and i'm not exaggerating
i'm not being rhetorical
i can't remember a time when there are
sharper differences
more angry
more angry divisions we've had contests
between provinces and we've had big
fights over in pipelines and
transmission lines and all sorts of but
it was never carried out with animosity
it never by the way called up the brands
i i went from 50 60 years never heard
anyone call anyone a nazi because they
didn't like what they said
a man who comes in and basically says to
the world i am the personification
of all that is new and correct in a 21st
century virtue remember it's 2015. uh i
am sanctified uh by my own correctness
on all of the genuine issues and i am
going to build a tranquility founded in
respect for all canadians and six years
later
you've got stallions on parliament hill
running into
into walkers you've got the police
probably being forced to do stuff that
they don't want to you have a parliament
that's been eviscerated or castrated the
biggest debt ever the west is angry and
we have on the public scene and this is
ineffectual in chaos we have no he has
abandoned the working class the
president
has gone away
okay so no let's go back in time a bit
so
you know i remember i was politically
active when the separatist movement was
perhaps at its peak and that would be
under rene levesque and so the country
was really tearing itself apart and i
was in albertans so there weren't two
provinces that were more set against
each other than alberta and quebec and
that might still be the case but i know
that among albertans at that time there
was respect for rene levesque people
actually trusted him and they thought
well those those damn separatists they
want to separate but we can understand
why and we don't think it's evil we just
think it's wrong
and people listen to levesque and
levesque and trudeau could have a debate
and there wasn't this demonization even
when the country was literally on the
verge of taking of tearing itself apart
he'd be a better one in a sense because
but levesque was
he was disliked for his cause
but he was very much admired for
self-evident integrity you can be on the
wrong side of something and have a great
deal of virtue besides that but here's a
better one
when alberta was first facing
uh the pillage
of its natural resources under the
national energy program and that was
pierre senior
uh it was then you know it was peter law
he
who in many ways was kind of an
archetypal premier he was the premier
that basically filled a role the role
didn't fill him
those two and they had a certain
equality intellectual or moral presence
they
sat at each other in constitutional
conferences on television and i know
they sat face to face behind the scenes
both of them were tough
they were both tough people
and yet there was no residue of oh he's
a goddamn bastard because he's a nazis
no
there was enough character in each of
them to have a deep and probably
irreconcilable difference and still
maintain stability and compromise that's
called canada and that is what happened
in canada is that civility and
compromise did prevail up to now yeah
and that was also back when tough was
actually still
yeah that way that's another story
altogether right yeah well it's
definitely another story
so so so so maybe maybe i'll just review
this again just so that everybody knows
so here's what canadians are being asked
for they're asked to decide whether
these truckers are a reprehensible bunch
of
foreign-funded nazi insurrectionists or
whether the entire governing structure
in canada and the press that reports on
it has become corrupt in a what would
you say in historically unmatched manner
and so that's a tough choice canadians
but the first part of that isn't true
and the second part unfortunately is and
you can tell that not least by the fact
that parliament has essentially been
abrogated over the last two years and
more particularly on friday and that we
now have retroactive crime in this
country and the seizure of bank accounts
and so this is all occurring when the
pandemic is not only coming to a halt on
technical grounds but when many
countries around the world are lifting
mandates which would not have been
lifted mandate in canada unless the
truckers had protested and so
and that's in a background of the
devolving of executive responsibility to
experts and to opinion by all three
political parties the abandonment of the
working class by the ndp and the
imposition of uh utopian globalist
agenda on the entire country entire
economy of the country
and that's basically where we're at
and i i don't think i can put a footnote
on it i'd say one two one or two things
i'm laughing but i'm not
this is a sad sad mess and i'll tell you
this for sure
that in the immediate future in the next
12 months
we're going to hear so many
ramifications out of this we've done a
great injury that may not be easily
repaired over time and that's that's the
biggest worry of all it isn't the convoy
that isn't the clearing of the protest
it's the nature of the country and the
harmony that wants it new
thank you jordan
thanks rex unprecedented times in our
country and what a bloody catastrophe
that is and no you know i've not been an
admirer of trudeau since he decided
inappropriately in my mind to run for
office despite lacking all the necessary
qualifications for doing so except the
unearned
fame of his name
and but i
having said all that that doesn't mean i
wish that he would reside over the
destruction of the com country as
evidence of his incompetence
and i guess i would also say maybe i'll
ask you this too
i cannot see how his government can
survive the next month
what what do you think what's your
prediction i i i i'm much more
pessimistic than you
uh i we have to see because it's this is
in the middle this is extremely dynamic
uh i wrote their little tiny thing you
know we had mr jordan what he was doing
when he called the election
earlier last year this is an issue but
we won't see an election on it mr singh
as you pointed out has become the
tattered tale of a not very noble kite
uh and the the funny thing that the
separatist party in quebec is actually
opposing this we've
the greatest canadians in parliament are
the separatists i know i'm laughing but
i'm not yeah
it's a sad time it's a serious time
well you hear this is what i'd like to
say in conclusion really because we i
haven't been that specific there were a
lot of those men and women that came for
two or three whole weeks
they were they were showing a good
spirit and they had their parties well
you know
you know this was hard they had to spend
the money they got their money seized by
the government they're out there being
mocked by the majority of the canadian
press they don't want to be three months
in january and february squatting in a
truck in front of a parliament building
in the middle of minus 20.
so you know something now they got the
long drive back and they have been
booted out of their national capital
i just say to them if they listen to you
and me in this particular thing uh i
think you did good stuff and i think you
know
thank god for the working class
class is what keeps the country working
and thanks for your time jordan thanks
for talking to me rex
talk again soon man
[Music]
you